---
title: Legal Job Leads
slug: /legal-job-leads
updatedAt: "2019-09-15"
---

### Giglaw

gigLAW connects law students with exceptional law firms to complete project-based work
https://www.giglaw.co/


### Attorneed

A platform for connection law students and law firms and other project-based
work to gain experience during the pandemic.
https://www.attornneed.com/page/become-a-virtual-intern

### ILP Foundry

New professional opportunities for the technology policy community posted on
the @ILPFoundry Job Board https://twitter.com/ILPFoundryJobs?s=20

### Law Jobs FB Group

https://www.facebook.com/groups/1458103401122798


### Minority Corporate Counsel Association

A fantastic resource for in-house positions, including job listings and tons
of resources for helping you get a leg up in your in-house job search. Learn
more here. https://www.mcca.com/career-center/

### ACC (Association of Corporate Counsel)

Interested in house positions? Check out ACC’s incredible resources,
including guides for entry level folks and job listings. Learn more here.
https://www.acc.com/

### GoInHouse

Another great resource for folks interested in pursuing in-house positions.
This platform is focused on job listings. Learn more here.
https://www.goinhouse.com/

### Martindale

A trusted resource for legal job listings as well as networking leads for
lawyers in every market. Learn more here. https://www.martindale.com/

### ABA Career Center for Law Students

The ABA’s career center for entry-level jobs. The ABA posts a surprising
number of leads for entry-level legal jobs in its career center. Learn more
here.
https://abaforlawstudents.com/start-your-legal-career/entry-level-legal-jobs/

### The ABA’s Job Search Portal

The ABA’s job search portal can also be a great place to find leads. Learn
more here. https://jobs.americanbar.org/jobseeker/search/results/

### Linked-In’s Law Student Jobs Page

LinkedIn helps sort opportunities for law students. You can learn more here.
https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/law-student-jobs/

### Law Crossing

Law Crossing offers regular posts for law students and entry level law jobs.
Law Crossing also offers advice and guides for law students and recent
graduates. Learn more here. https://www.lawcrossing.com/law-student-jobs.php

### NALP’s Legal Job Listings

NALP hosts a constantly-updated list of entry-level and higher-level legal
jobs. Learn more here. https://jobs.nalp.org/jobs/

### LawMatch

LawMatch attempts to link up legal applicants with legal employers. They
offer a paid service or a free one. It’s worth taking a look at the listings
for free, at least. Learn more here.
https://lawmatch.com/job-seeker-packages/

### VentureLoop

A resource for job listings related to the tech space. Learn more here.
https://www.ventureloop.com/ventureloop/home.php

### TechGC Center

Another great resource for folks interested in practicing in the tech space.
Learn more here. https://jobs.techgc.co/

### LawJobs.com

A newer resource for legal job listings. Another great resources just to
peruse listings and find leads. Learn more here. https://lawjobs.com/

### Law360’s Job Search

Law360 has a great resource of new legal job leads. There are not a whole lot
of listings, but they are updated frequently. Learn more here.
https://jobs.law360.com/

### Attorney Jobs

Another legal-jobs listing resource. Learn more here.
https://www.attorneyjobsinusa.com/

## Other Job-Related and Skills-Related Resources

### The Ultimate Law Student Get-A-Job Checklist: A step-by-step guide to help every student land a great job.

A book with some helpful tips and information.
https://www.amazon.com/Ultimate-Student-Checklist-step-step-ebook/dp/B07TWQGNRF

### Law Jobs: The Complete Guide.

https://faculty.westacademic.com/Book/Detail?id=226422&q=law%20jobs

### The Legal Career Guide, 4th Edition: From Law Student to Lawyer (ABA Career Series).

https://www.amazon.com/Legal-Career-Guide-4th-Student/dp/1590310594
