<PublicLayout>

# Privacy Policy

Effective Date: March 17, 2020

This Privacy Policy describes the practices of Neon Law (“Neon Law”, “us”, or
“we”) with respect to the collection, use, and disclosure of Personal
Information through our website, www.neonlaw.com (the “Site”). “Personal
Information” means personally identifiable information about you or
information that would allow someone to identify or contact you.

By accessing or using our Site, you indicate to us that you consent to the
practices described in this Privacy Policy and in our Terms of Use.

Please review this Privacy Policy CAREFULLY, as it may have changed since you
last visited the Site. Neon Law may amend this Privacy Policy from time to time
and, if we do, we will provide conspicuous notice on our Site and update the
Effective Date at the top of this page. Any such amendments to this Privacy
Policy will be effective as of the updated Effective Date. By accessing or
using the Site on or after the updated Effective Date, you indicate to us
that you consent to the amendments.

## No Attorney-Client Relationship
Please note that lawyers on this site enter into attorney-client
relationships with its clients only pursuant to certain policies and
procedures unrelated to the Site, including the execution of an engagement
letter, a screen for conflicts of interest, and other Neon Law policies or
rules of the Bar Associations in the states in which we maintain offices. You
agree that your access and use of the Site, including the submission of
information to us through the Site, does not create an attorney-client
relationship between you, Neon Law, or any of the attorneys on this platform.
‍
If you wish to inquire about legal services and how you might become a client
of one of the lawyers on this platform, please contact us at
support@neonlaw.com.

## Applicability of this Privacy Policy

As indicated above, this Privacy Policy applies to Personal Information
collected through our Site. This Privacy Policy does not apply to third party
services, websites, or applications that we may link to through the Site.
When you use one of these links to leave our Site, we encourage you to review
the privacy policies that apply to the services, websites, or applications
you choose to access.

Certain parts of our Site that are made available to clients who have
formally engaged with a lawyer as legal counsel and may be subject to
additional terms and conditions, as well as additional privacy and data
security provisions. In such cases, both this Privacy Policy and the
additional terms will apply. If you are a client of a lawyer on this platform
and have questions about what terms are applicable to you, please contact us
at support@neonlaw.com or reach out to your attorney.

## How we Collect and Use Information

Neon Law collects the following categories of information from you through the
Site:

* Personal Information. You may use and access the Site without providing us
  with any Personal Information. However, we may invite you to voluntarily
  submit certain Personal Information, such as your name, physical address,
  email address, and phone number. Certain forms on the Site may also ask you
  to submit optional information about your company that we may link to other
  Personal Information we collect from you, such as company name, entity type
  and size, number of fundraising rounds completed, and answers to qualitative
  questions about your company. We will only use this Personal Information (i)
  for the purposes explicitly described to you at the time you provided us with
  the information; (ii) to respond to your inquiries; (iii) to evaluate a
  prospective attorney-client relationship with you and what legal services we
  may be able to provide you; (iv) to send you newsletters, publications, and
  other communications that may be of interest to you; (v) for internal
  business analytics, such as understanding the demographics of visitors to our
  Site; and (vi) to create Aggregate Information (defined below) that, after
  being aggregated and anonymized, can no longer be used to identify you.
* Usage Information. We may also automatically collect certain information
  regarding your access to and usage of the Site (“Usage Information”). We
  collect such information through the device you use to access and use the
  Site. We also collect Usage Information by use of cookies and other tracking
  technology (collectively, “Tracking Technologies”). Usage Information
  includes, but is not limited to, your device type, operating system, browser
  type, IP address, MAC address, information the websites or application from
  which you navigated to our Site, information you input into our Site (such as
  search terms in the search bar), pages you access on our Site, how long you
  spend on a particular page on our Site, any links you click on, and similar
  information. We use Usage Information (i) to improve and customize the Site
  for users like you; (ii) to examine the effectiveness and response of
  visitors to information and content we put on our Site; (iii) for business
  analytics purposes, such as determining usage patterns on certain pages or
  features on our Site; (iv) for security and maintenance purposes; (v) from
  Tracking Technologies as described below; (vi) to create Aggregate
  Information (defined below); and (vi) other uses consistent with applicable
  law.
* Tracking Technologies. Neon Law and its third-party vendors (including Google
  Analytics, who provides additional privacy notices here) may use Tracking
  Technologies, such as cookies and pixel tags, to collect Usage Information.
  “Cookies” are small files that are saved onto your device or browser through
  your web browser that allow us to collect certain Usage Information, and
  “pixel tags” are tiny graphics with unique identifiers that are embedded on
  the Site that allow us to collect certain Usage Information. Tracking
  Technologies do not, by themselves, collect Personal Information; however, we
  may use Tracking Technologies to, for example, identify that the device you
  are using has accessed certain parts of the Site and may associate that
  information with Personal Information you have voluntarily provided us.

Please note that you have choices with respect to the use of Tracking
Technologies and may, in some instances, disable them. Please see “Managing
Your Information”, below, for more information.
‍
## Aggregate Information.
We may use the information we collect to create “Aggregate Information”,
which is aggregated and anonymized information that cannot be used to
identify any natural person, in order to develop statistics and analytics
about our Site. Though Aggregate Information may be derived from Personal
Information, it is not Personal Information because it cannot be used to
identify you or any natural person.

## How We Share Information With Third Parties

In some instances, Neon Law relies on third parties to provide us with
certain services at our request and pursuant to our instructions. These third
parties include cloud hosting services, web design services, data analytics
services, information technology services, customer relationship management
(CRM) services, communications platforms and related analytics services,
marketing automation, and other similar technology infrastructure or business
operations services providers. Where such third parties perform services for
us, we may share Personal Information, Usage Information, Aggregate
Information, or other information collected consistent with this Privacy
Policy with such third parties, but only as necessary for such third parties
to provide us with the requested services and only in a manner consistent
with this Privacy Policy.

In addition, we may share information we collect with other third parties,
but only in the following circumstances: (i) to comply with applicable law or
legal process, including litigation or governmental requests; (ii) to enforce
this Privacy Policy, our Terms of Use, and any other legal or contractual
rights; (iii) to secure and protect the Site, including by detecting
technical issues, security threats, or fraud; (iv) as part of an acquisition
by a third party of all or substantially all of Neon Law’s assets, or as part
of a merger or reorganization, where the sharing of information is necessary;
and (v) as necessary to protect the rights, property or safety of Neon Law, our
clients, visitors to our Site, or the public.

## Information Security and “Do Not Track”
Neon Law uses industry-standard technical and organizational safeguards to
protect the information we collect through the Site. However, we cannot
guarantee the absolute security of our Site or systems, and we therefore do
not warrant that your safeguards will prevent the loss, theft, and
unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, misuse, or destruction of the
information we collect. If we learn of any incident that may compromise the
privacy or security of information we collect, we may notify you or others
(including law enforcement or governmental authorities) consistent with
applicable law. If you provided us with your email address, you agree that we
may communicate with you electronically regarding the privacy and security of
information we collect.

Our Site does not have the capability of responding to “Do Not Track” signals
received from web browsers or devices.

## Managing Your Information
As mentioned above, you do not need to provide any Personal Information to us
to use the Site. If you have provided us with Personal Information, you may
contact us at support@neonlaw.com if you wish, with respect to any Personal
Information we have about you, (i) to view or obtain a copy of that
information; (ii) to correct that information; (iii) to request a deletion of
some or all of the information; or (iv) to request a restriction of how we
use the information, or to object to certain uses of the information.

If you prefer not to accept cookies or wish to disable or use of Tracking
Technologies, most browsers and mobile devices allow you to change your
settings so as to notify you when you receive cookies or other Tracking
Technologies are being used, and to choose whether or not to accept/allow
them. Most browsers also allow you to disable or delete existing cookies or
to automatically reject future cookies. Please note that disabling cookies
may impair your use of the Site.

Certain tracking technologies we use are related to advertising networks, and
through those technologies we may share certain Usage Information such as IP
addresses. No Personal Information is shared with these advertising networks,
but please note that the information we share with those advertising networks
might be combined with other information about you that those networks may
have collected from other sources. To learn more about advertising networks
and how to opt out of sharing information with them, please click here and
here.

## Visitors Outside the United States
Neon Law is established in the United States. By providing Personal
Information to us, you acknowledge and agree that your Personal Information
may be transferred to and stored servers in the United States, which may be
located outside of the country or other governmental jurisdiction in which
you reside.

## Questions? Please contact us at support@neonlaw.com

All content presented herein is for informational purposes only. Nothing
should be construed as legal advice. Transmission and receipt of this
information is not intended to create and does not constitute, an
attorney-client relationship with Neon Law or any of the attorneys on this
platform. There is no expectation of attorney-client privilege or
confidentiality of anything you may communicate to us in this forum. Do not
act upon any information presented without seeking professional counsel.

</PublicLayout>
