---
title: Coronavirus in Prison
slug: /coronavirus-in-prison
updatedAt: "2020-07-01"
tags: pro-bono,black-lives-matter,criminal-justice
description: >
  A discussion about the Coronavirus pandemic at Saguaro Correctional Center.
---

It is well known that COVID-19 pandemic has affected lower-income families
disproportionately. This affect, unfortuantely, has also extended to inmates,
where basic safety precautions are often ignored.

> [Listen to the interview here](/audio/20200805-Coronavirus.mp3)

The following was an interview of Rickie Slaughter, designated by "R" below.

N: Do you believe that Core Civic has taken the necessary Covid-19
precautions to prevent the ongoing outbreak at the facility?

R: At the moment, I think they're still missing a few steps but if we go back
to when the spring began, I don't think they took any of the necessary
precautions that they should have been taking despite the fact that they were
put on notice and made aware of what was going on in the facility. As early
as May 11, 2020 me in the federal Public Defender's Office to my attorney
Jeremy Baron at the time had alerted to the state of Nevada in the motion
that asked for my release to the circumstances here is at Saguaro
Correctional Facility in which Covid-19 was spreading through the facility
and inmates were not being treated appropriately.

At the time there were any specific allegations they had an entire unit such
as L unit, they call that unit Lima, that was put on complete lockdown in
addition to that in the specific unit where I was in, there were at least six
inmates that were presented with symptoms consistent with Covid-19. Those
symptoms included when they admitted they lost his sense of taste and smell
several other inmates and dry coughs and sore throats, you had fevers.

Each one of them had submitted request for help for medical
here in the nurses informed them that they were only probably suffering
from allergies and it got so bad to were what I believe is they begin telling
everyone in the facility the same thing to present those symptoms because
they handed out so much allergy medication, they ran out. And I seen this with
my own eyes when they came through get my neighbor who was suffering from
cold-like symptoms his medication they ended up telling they were out
because they didn't have the house so much to some image they have to wait
till we stop off so at that point on May 11th we filed the most
requesting that I be released.

By May 18th warden Frank responded with an eighty-page document that he
signed as a declaration he also wrote a letter to boss Hawaii oversight
commission each of those things can be located on my website
JusticeForRickieSlaughter.com and he ended up saying basically that I was
lying and all the allegations that there was no COVID-19 in the facility but
the worst part about it I don't think he took the precaution since because he
didn't come into our unit to check on the six inmates that I had explained
we're presenting COVID like symptoms. They just left them there to deal with
it on their own. And not only that, we shared telephones we are
moved by the same officers who touched them then touch us because we have to
be escorted, so each of those things contributed to the spread.
The showers are not disinfected for days sometimes, days on end, without
them disinfecting the showers. So I believe that helped promulgate and
facilitate the spread of COVID-19 in the facility.

Frank, on the other hand, just said that it was all false and nothing was
going on. Well lo and behold, about two months later on July 8th we all get
tested because in Nevada at the time, Saguaro had still not conducted a
single test of staff or inmates of COVID-19. So no I don't think they took
the necessary precautions.

Once those tests came back on July 8th, I mean the test that we took on
July 8th, I believe the test came back the following week after when those
test results came back it turned out out of the 99 and made two were testing
which were all of that image we were only tested because of that has would be
tested over 60 inmates tested positive so that was over 60% would be indicative in
in kind of going right with what I said was occurring in the facility back in
May. So I hope that answers your question.

N: Yes, thanks for sharing. Nevada has said all inmates with COVID are
asymptomatic do you agree with that description or have you seen evidence of
symptoms?

R: It's definitely..., that description that all images are asymptomatic is
false. In fact, just about four days ago there was an inmate
up here who specifically was throwing up blood and even in May inmates were
coughing up blood and going through stuff but now just recently for how long
we had a cup of the blood which he was spewing out in his vomit in his hand
as he approached the nurse to try to ask for help. Well they waved him off and
they said go fill out a request form filled out a medical request form and send
it to us in the mail. But it didn't give him any help there he ended up
calling his mother his mother called the facility and put some pressure on
the facility to make sure they treated her son. The nurses came back around
the next day they decided to then see him and try to tend to what was going on
with him. There are few inmates who have complained that it feels like there's
fluid on their lungs not having trouble breathing there are quite a few inmates
suffering from fatigue and different spine eggs or abdominal tenderness in
their stomach so no I would disagree with the statement that all the inmates
were asymptomatic.

N: What was the reaction among inmates when they were told that they were
tested positive?

R: for pretty much it was the rhetorical damn I knew it you know
everybody knew it was spreading through the facility the running joke among
and inmates was that well everybody just about everybody's got it now as long
as nobody dies were hiring off there was a running joke long before the test
and it was traded to the facility my concern was given the fact that it was
so prevalent in common knowledge that people were sick with symptoms that
appear to be consistent with these characterizes the global pandemic that is
surrounding us if that's a while we're still steadfast and their refusal to
test the single person COVID-19 and I believe their goal was to keep this
person that's one of the few courses in prisons in Arizona as being
characterized as having zero coded cases suck continue to take in more
contracts and money from other states because obviously no State really wants
to send inmates to a prison as totally cases and in this particular situation
they actually tried to move us to a prison called Florence wage of course if
we put it in Florence Arizona in June right before the test came on saying a
late June they came admitted announcement around two hundred twenty-six or
seven months telling us we all had to be out within four days so pack our
stuff up well that ended up getting canceled with a test drive and I believe
they were trying to send this down there to the central office with you so
that we would take the test down there and it would appear that we code it
now mayor because Florence Central have been suffering from an outbreak as
early as May 9th for for public College because you have filed a class action
lawsuit on May 9th against em facility out here in Arizona so I believe they
were trying to deliberately cover up the fact that Kobe was in this facility
so they can at least still have one prison to pull in cash from other states
because they were trying to move to Idaho State prisoners in our place after
they moved us out to Forest I was there playing

N: are there are to be enough members to address the needs of inmates?

R: there appears to be enough staff members to address the needs of inmates
with no it's not in fact they're short-staffed many staff has quit many staff
or Bots taking off because it's spread they're actually very very source to
have most of these staff are working in enormous amount of overtime every
week just to wage in the facility here I mean you see the same Offices here
it's almost like they're sleeping here.

N: have there been any testing of inmates every two or three weeks had planned?

R: not to my knowledge the only testing they did there was to Hawaiian
prisoners who had the protest for two days and that pro team consisted of
them blocking the windows of the guards could not do count properly because
it can see into the room to the account if the inmate was alive in the sale
or do a welfare check so they protested for about 24 hours before the
facility met their demands and that's because these wine inmates were housed
in the facility with us off and in that particular house in that unit as well
the particular unit I was in where this happened there was eight guys when it
came back positive for covid-19 and you had these young guys a couple of
Kansas guys and they saying you know just the two of them line guys took it
upon himself after they ask for test and were refused to test they protested
and then and negotiation process began wage to make negotiate it to unblock
the windows in their protest if they were allowed to be tested for covid-19
those are the only two in the unit that I was in in to my knowledge that have
been tested of course Civics personal testing apparatus or supplies has
anything changed about the president's response to the situation after the
process results came back there has been some changes those changes have been
more language in Nevada prisoners they feel like they've been set up and
they've been saying they don't believe the tests are reliable and that was
making it up and one thing they have done is they stepped up the gear that
the officers now where the officers now we're full body hazmat suit with a
Page Field whereas before they were wearing nothing and sometimes Mass if
they chose to and sometimes not has there been any separation between the
Nevada inmates and the other out-of-state prisoners that's a row houses the
ones from Hawaii and Kansas there's been a separation since the return of the
test that day that they got noticed officially easier I wouldn't say
officially at the day noticed trickled down for Thursday would be here from
Nevada that so many inmates and tested positive they suspended the work
privileges in the movement privileges beyond our unit to Thursday for the
Nevada inmate so we're still just housing although unit but there is one Wing
that houses and that would be the segregation wage which houses steel Hawaii
prisoners are still over there the two guys who have been testing plus a few
others there's a canvas guy over there and there's no doubt in maintenance a
mute and not disrespecting or showers they're not cleaning the phone before
they give us a million one phone which they bring to those guys sales the
sale so there is some intermingling still going off if it asks the question

N: based on the circumstances do you think it would be likely that in the
battery May got paid from Hawaii and made or vice versa?

R: it's definitely possible I mean the Nevada we worked in the kitchen
amongst the Hawaiian and Kansas population we also work yard labor work the
number of times so it's possible it could be given from us to them from them
to us or from more likely an officer or staff member to us because the
disease that is just roll age and walking to the person on his own and has to
come to his staff whether it's on clothes or whether some of them have snuck
in here even though they're presenting symptoms and there are quite a few
people who presented symptoms at the time there were still working so they
had to be brought in by some staff member in fact they made or spread from
there on but it could have happened any number of ways my guess or estimate
that's what I can give you is that a large portion of the facility in fact
you have over thirteen hundred prisoners here only 99 were tested and out of
those $99 / 60 jumping prisoners were positive so you imagine if you test
this whole facility but they're still refusing to test the wiring population
or the Kansas population whatever their purpose is off those could be
nefarious purposes it could be budgetary purpose regardless it's not
legitimate purposes but I believe it has more to do with trying to allow the
clock resets so to speak so the number of Kobe case is goes back to zero and
now they can take in that Idaho contract which made an already signed and
received a million dollars a contract provides last question I have is what
response would you like to see from the Nevada Governor or legislature in
response to the many positive testimony that it I would like to see my hope
would be that the governor this is Steve sisolak and the government of Nevada
would at least Place us somewhere where people care more about our lives that
would be the best case scenario in my mind would that be bringing this back
in Nevada which is probably not likely or feasible given the pandemic and all
these locked out orders but or whether it is corecivic moving us to a safer
facility or facilities more Mindful and caring about what is happening to us
here they don't really care so we're just left to survive this the best way
we can which is a very crazy scenario the best they do here is walk around
with the surface thermometer one of those ones that you point the laser that
you had to see what the temperature is twice wage which really means nothing
in the large scheme of covid-19 because you could have any any number of
symptoms can be associated with covid-19 in a thermometer the only reads the
surface temperature is and is not read you the core temperature for it anyway
so that's the best that they're doing my best hope would be that they take us
somewhere where they actually cared about whether we live or die in this
place.

N: is there anything else you'd like to say Rickie?

R: no I want to thank goodness about independent for taking the time to
submit those questions I hope he adds to the public discourse and debate and
conversation about what's going on here off and then it is fruitful and
helpful for the person is people need to remember that we are also someone's
brother father Uncle cousin a friend we have families and those taxpayers pay
for pardon system in the Services of Nevada provides are relatives of many of
ours here so I would hope that the vendor cares enough to do something that
we offer benefits instead of our veterans
