“It’s a once in a lifetime occurrence”

On September 11, 2014 Patrick Wayne Harper was arrested for the murder of
Andrea Lafon. Lafon had been shot and killed in a marijuana drug deal that
witnesses say went sideways. Harper, who was 17 at the time, was going to be
tried as an adult.

The police had trouble identifying Harper as the shooter early in their
investigation, but made the arrest based on a witness, who was in the car
when Lafon was shot, identifying Harper as the shooter. However, when the
North Las Vegas police later showed this same witness a photo of Harper the
witness was unable to say who it was, according to a police report. This
witness was also taken to Harper’s school to see him and still did not
recognize him.

Harper was arrested by then Detective Jesus Prieto. During transport to the
police station Harper offered multiple times to take a drug test to prove
that he had never smoked marijuana, but former Detective Prieto declined. He
responded to Harper by saying, “No. You’re done. Throw yourself in.” Former
Detective Prieto had already decided Harper was guilty.

Harper also adamantly told the police he had an alibi, he told the police
that he gotten a slushie at an AMPM and then gone to the high school football
game at the time of the murder. The police did not check out his alibi, but
Private Investigator Toby Tobiasson, at the behest of Harper’s attorney
Kristina Wildeveld, did.

With a court order, Tobiasson obtained video footage of Harper leaving an
AMPM at 7:14 p.m. on the day of the murder. The AMPM was 1.5 miles east from
where the shooting took place. The police publicly insisted that the shooting
took place at 7:18 p.m. However, police reports show that 911 was called at
7:18 p.m. and the witness who was in the car with Lafon got out of the car,
pulled Lafon from the driver’s seat and then tried to wave cars down to call
911. The exact amount of time this took is uncertain, but the shooting did
take place before 7:18 p.m.

Harper had four minutes, likely less, to travel 1.5 miles from the
convenience store to the location of the shooting, get into Lafon’s car,
start to participate in a drug deal, shoot her in the head, then arrive back
at the high school football game. All without access to a vehicle. In
addition to the near impossibility of Harper being in two places at once, the
classmates, who were involved with the drug deal, later recanted and
indicated they were pressured into implicating Harper. Additionally, a
witness indicated that the shooter was wearing a white shirt and Harper was
wearing a dark colored shirt on the surveillance camera.

The Clark County district attorney’s office dropped all charges against
Harper on September 24, 2014 after he had spent 13 days behind bars. Harper’s
attorney said that this case was a “once in a lifetime occurrence,” and that
in all the 20 years she had practiced law she had not seen a case like this.

But, this was not a once in a lifetime experience for former Detective
Prieto. Former Detective Prieto had experienced arresting an innocent black
man for a crime he did not and could not have committed at least once before.
Similarly to Harper, Rickie Slaughter was arrested for a crime which he could
not have committed because he was also unable to be in two places at once.

Unlike Harper, Rickie was wrongfully convicted of murder and is still serving
a sentence for this crime he did not commit. In addition to being miles away
from the crime when it occurred, Rickie did not match the descriptions of the
perpetrators. Rickie’s conviction rests on a faulty photo lineup in which his
image was brighter than all of the other images which is known to
subconsciously draw one’s attention. Additionally, unlike the public
recantation of the witnesses in Harper’s case, the police conducted a second
more fair lineup in which Rickie was not identified, but this information was
never made public nor was it shared with Rickie’s attorney.

But, Rickie’s story is not over. Rickie’s mistreatment did not end at
sentencing. He has been shot in prison by correctional officer’s, which left
17 pellets lodged in his face. Now Rickie is at risk of contracting COVID-19
in a prison that has not put in place enough precautions to keep the
prisoners safe. Two prisoners had to protest simply to get tested for
COVID-19.

The misidentification and subsequent arrest or incarceration of innocent
Black men is not a once in a lifetime occurrence. It is prevalent, but it is
swept under the rug as an abnormal or infrequent event. This pattern is not
the fault of one questionable former detective, like Jesus Prieto. The
criminal justice system is not broken, it was created to unequally target POC
and people of lower economic status, especially Black men. Every day that
Rickie spends in a cell for a crime that he did not commit solidifies the
foundations of a criminal justice system that failed him and so many others,
like Patrick Wayne Harper. Black Lives Matter and that includes the lives of
Black people who have been wrongfully incarcerated.

> “I wish I could say that racism and prejudice were only distant memories.
> We must dissent from the indifference. We must dissent from the apathy. We
> must dissent from the fear, the hatred and the mistrust…We must dissent
> because America can do better, because America has no choice but to do
> better.”
> ― Thurgood Marshall

We need to do better for Patrick Wayne Harper. We need to do better for
Rickie Slaughter. We need to do better.
