export const meta = {
  title: "Separation Agreement and Release",
  slug: "/separation-agreement-and-release",
  filename: "/separation-agreement-and-release",
  updatedAt: "2021-07-31",
  tags: "templates",
};
import { MdxLayout } from '../../components/layouts/mdxLayout';
export default ({ children }) => <MdxLayout meta={meta}>{children}</MdxLayout>

This Confidential Separation Agreement and General Release (the “Agreement”) is
by and between Employer, a Delaware corporation (the “Employer”) and (the
“Employee”).

WHEREAS, Employee’s employment with Company is severed effective
<Interpolation text={matter.primaryContact.name} />
(the “Separation Date”).

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and conditions set forth
herein, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto
agree as follows:

1. Termination of Employment Obligations. Employee understands that Employer has
no obligation, contractual, statutory, or otherwise, to reemploy, recall, hire,
or employ Employee in the future.

2. Consideration. In consideration of Employee’s execution of this Agreement, Employer agrees to provide the following:
  a. A lump sum payment of 4 weeks salary, subject to normal withholdings
    referred to as the “Separation Payment”.
  b. Employee will be able to continue as a member of the Company's Group Health
    Plans at Employee’s own expense in accordance with the terms of those plans,
    via COBRA, for the legally required benefit continuation period. Employee is
    solely responsible for completing COBRA paperwork.
  c. Employee acknowledges this is the final agreement and this agreement
  supersedes any other separation agreements or verbal conversations.

The Separation Payment amount shall be paid by Employer to Employee within
thirty (30) days following Employee’s execution and return of this Agreement.
Employee acknowledges that Employer does not have a policy relating to severance
pay for its employees and that Employee would not be entitled to the payment of
the Separation Payment in the absence of this Agreement.

3. Release. Employee does hereby fully release, remise, and forever discharge
Employer, its subsidiaries, affiliates, and divisions and their successors,
owners, officers, directors, agents, and employees from any and all claims and
demands Employee has or may have had, as of the date of the execution of this
Agreement, arising out of or related to Employee’s employment with Company or
the termination thereof, including, but not limited to, claims based on tort,
statute, express or implied contract, wrongful discharge, the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights
Act of 1866, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act,
the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA),
the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
California's Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Unruh Civil Rights Act, the
California Business and Professions Code, California Equal Pay Law, California
Whistleblower Protection Laws, California Family Rights Act, California
Pregnancy Disability Leave Law, California Compensation Law, California WARN
law, any applicable California Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Order,
wrongful termination in violation of public policy (Tameny claims), the
California Constitution or any common law, any applicable state civil rights
act, and any other applicable federal, state, or local laws and regulations each
as amended.

Employee specifically acknowledges that Employee is aware of and familiar with
the provisions of CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE. SECTION 1542, which provides as
follows:

A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR
SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF
KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.

For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, Employee hereby
expressly waives all rights and benefits Employee may have under this section,
as well as under any other statutes or common law principle of similar effect
which provides any remedy of any kind, and acknowledge that the release set
forth in this Agreement is intended to include the discharge of all claims which
Employee does not know or suspect to exist at the time this Agreement is
effective. Employee waives all seniority rights Employee may have with Employer.
Employee agrees and acknowledges that this is a knowing and voluntary waiver.
This Agreement does not apply to or waive any rights Employee may have under
applicable workers’ compensation or unemployment compensation statutes.

4. No Basis for Claim or Charge. Employee represents that Employee has no valid
basis upon which to file a claim or charge against Employer.

5. Protection of Employer’s Business. Employee agrees that Employee will not
use, disclose, or cause to be disclosed in any way, directly or indirectly, any
of Employer’s trade secrets, confidential or proprietary information or
documents including, without limitation, information and documents relating to
Employer’s business and operations; customers, clients, and vendors; technology,
finances, and innovations; business, sales, promotion, pricing, and marketing
plans; processes, techniques, and strategies; and products, services, and
employees, except as may be required by law or other compulsory disclosure
process.

6. Return of Company Property. Employee represents and warrants that, on or
before the Separation Date, Employee will return to Employer all of its
property, including, but not limited to, computer equipment, mobile devices,
disks and data, cardkeys, door and file keys, computer access codes and
passwords, books, manuals, files, papers, memoranda, letters, charts,
consumer/client information, or other Employer documents or information, whether
in hard copy, electronic, or other form, that Employee received, acquired, or
prepared in connection with Employee’s employment.

7. Assistance and Cooperation. Employee agrees to assist and cooperate with
Employer in past, present, and future legal matters – including disputes,
audits, investigations, claims, or legal proceedings of any kind – which arise
from, or relate to, Employee’s employment with Employer, to the fullest extent
Employer reasonably deems necessary. Employer will provide reasonable advance
notice whenever it requests Employee’s assistance and cooperation.

8. No Reemployment. Employee agrees not to initiate an application (written or
verbal) to Employer or its related entities for reemployment for work as an
employee, consultant, independent contractor, or in any other capacity. Employee
agrees that if Employee initiates such an application to perform such work, the
following is valid: (a) Employer may deny or terminate the application; (b) such
denial or termination does not constitute a violation of any law, rule,
regulation, or ordinance; and (c) such denial or termination does not give
Employee a basis for any legal claim. This Section does not prevent Employer or
its related entities from hiring Employee in the future, but Employer and its
related entities have no obligation to do so.

9. No Disparagement. Employee agrees to refrain from any action that may lead to
the impairment of Employer’s good will, reputation, or standing in the
community, or which may interfere with its relations with its clients, vendors,
suppliers, and/or employees.

10. No Admission. This Agreement shall not be construed as an admission by
Employer of any wrongdoing or any violation of federal, state, or local law, and
Employer specifically disclaims any wrongdoing or liability to Employee.

11. Default. Employee agrees that, should Employee breach this Agreement or
bring any action (in any forum) challenging the enforceability of this
Agreement, Employee will immediately repay the total amount of the Separation
Payment, unless such action directly pertains to the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act. In any action to enforce this Agreement, except a claim
pertaining directly to the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the prevailing
party’s attorneys’ fees and costs shall be paid by the party against whom this
Agreement is sought to be enforced.

12. Confidentiality. The terms and conditions of this Agreement and the
negotiations and discussions resulting in this Agreement shall be maintained as
confidential, and none of the above shall be disclosed to anyone except to the
extent legally obligated. Employee may discuss this matter with Employee’s
spouse, attorney, and tax advisor, but in each case such individuals must be
informed of and are bound by this confidentiality provision.

13. Severability. In the event any portion of this Agreement is deemed to be
invalid or unenforceable, that portion will be deemed to be omitted and the
remainder of this Agreement will remain in full force and effect; provided,
however, that it is the parties’ intent to effect a full and complete release by
Employee of any actual or perceived claims against Employer and any
interpretation or decision by any court or arbitral body which negates that
purpose shall render the entire Agreement null and void, and shall render the
full amount of the Separation Payment due and payable by Employee to Employer.

14. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the
parties pertaining to the subject matter contained herein.

15. Law Governing. The validity, construction, interpretation, and
administration of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California. Any action concerning this Agreement shall be brought in the federal
court for the Northern District of California or in the state court for San
Francisco County, California.

16. Notice to Employee. EMPLOYEE SHOULD THOROUGHLY REVIEW AND UNDERSTAND THIS
AGREEMENT BEFORE SIGNING IT. THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES A RELEASE AND WAIVER OF
LEGAL RIGHTS AND CLAIMS. BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, EMPLOYEE AGREES THAT
EMPLOYEE HAS READ THIS AGREEMENT AND FULLY UNDERSTANDS ALL OF ITS TERMS AND HAS
EXECUTED THIS INSTRUMENT VOLUNTARILY AND WITH FULL KNOWLEDGE OF ITS
SIGNIFICANCE. EMPLOYEE IS ADVISED TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY TO REVIEW THIS
AGREEMENT.

Employee’s signature below evidences that (a) Employee is fully competent to
enter into this Agreement, (b) Employee is doing so freely, knowingly, and
voluntarily, without duress or coercion, (c) Employee fully understands the
meaning of each provision of the Agreement, (d) Employee knows Employee is
giving up important legal rights, including any claims related to Employee’s
employment and separation of employment and other known and unknown claims
Employee might have, and (e) Employee understands that Employee’s waiver and
release does not extend to any claims that may arise after the Effective Date of
the Agreement.

17. Inspection and Revocation. Employee acknowledges that Employee has
twenty-one (21) days from the date Employee receives this Agreement to review
and decide whether to sign it. Once employee signs the Agreement, Employee has
the right to revoke the Agreement at any time prior to the expiration of seven
(7) days from Employee’s execution and return of the Agreement by giving written
notice of revocation to Employer within the seven-day revocation period. If
Employee revokes this Agreement, it will be null and void in all respects. The
written notice of revocation must be mailed by United States first class mail,
postage prepaid, or by United States certified mail, and addressed to the Head
of People, Company, Inc. at Company Address.

18. Effective Date. This Agreement becomes effective on the eighth day after
Employee signs it, as long as Employee has not revoked Employee’s acceptance of
the Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement on the
dates written below.

   EMPLOYEE NAME
_____________________________ Signature
_____________________________ Date
EMPLOYER INC.
_____________________________ Signature
_____________________________ Title
______ ________________________ Date

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RECEIPT OF CONFIDENTIAL SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE

I hereby acknowledge receipt of the proposed Confidential Separation Agreement
and General Release between me and Company, Inc. this _____ day of _______________

Signature of Employee: ___________________ Employee name: ______________________
