export const meta = {
  title: 'Coronavirus in Prison',
  slug: '/pro-bono/justice-for-rickie-slaughter/coronavirus-in-prison',
  updatedAt: '2020-07-01',
  tags: 'pro-bono,black-lives-matter,criminal-justice',
  description:
    'A discussion about the Coronavirus pandemic at Saguaro Correctional Center.',
};
import { MdxLayout } from '../../../components/layouts/mdxLayout';
export default ({ children }) => <MdxLayout meta={meta}>{children}</MdxLayout>;

It is well known that COVID-19 pandemic has affected lower-income families
disproportionately. This affect, unfortuantely, has also extended to inmates,
where basic safety precautions are often ignored.

> [Listen to the interview here](/audio/20200805-Coronavirus.mp3)

The following was an interview of Rickie Slaughter, designated by "R" below.

**N**: Do you believe that Core Civic has taken the necessary Covid-19
precautions to prevent the ongoing outbreak at the facility?

**R**: At the moment, I think they're still missing a few steps but if we go
back to when the spring began, I don't think they took any of the necessary
precautions that they should have been taking despite the fact that they were
put on notice and made aware of what was going on in the facility. As early
as May 11th of 2020, me and the federal Public Defender's Office, through my
attorney Jeremy Baron at the time, had alerted the state of Nevada, in a
motion asking for my release, to the circumstances here is at Saguaro
Correctional Facility in which Covid-19 was spreading through the facility
and inmates were not being treated appropriately.

At the time there were many specific allegations, they had an entire unit
such as L unit, they call that unit Lima, that was put on complete lockdown
in addition to that in the specific unit where I was in, there were at least
six inmates that were presenting with symptoms consistent with Covid-19.
Those symptoms included one inmate had lost his sense of taste and smell,
several other inmates had dry coughs and sore throats, a few had fevers.

Each one of them had submitted request for help from medical here and the
nurses informed them that they were only probably suffering from allergies
and it got so bad to where what I believe is they begin telling everyone in
the facility the same thing that presented those type of symptoms because
they handed out so much allergy medication, they ran out. And I seen this
with my own eyes when they came to get my neighbor who was suffering from
COVID-like symptoms his medication, they ended up telling they were out
because they had handed out so much to so many inmates they had to wait to
restock. So at that point, on May 11th we filed a motion requesting that I be
released.

By May 18th Warden Frank responded with an eighty-page document that he
signed as a declaration he also wrote a letter to the Hawaii oversight
commission each of those things can be located on my website
JusticeForRickieSlaughter.com. And he ended up saying basically that I was
lying and all the allegations that there was no COVID-19 in the facility, but
the worst part about it I don't think he took the precaution since because he
didn't come into our unit to check on the six inmates that I had explained
were presenting COVID like symptoms. They just left them there to deal with
it on their own. And not only that, we share showers, we share telephones, we
are moved by the same officers who touched them then touch us because we have
to be escorted. So, each of those things contributed to the spread. The
showers are not disinfected for days sometimes, days on end, without them
disinfecting the showers. So I believe that helped promulgate and facilitate
the spread of COVID-19 in the facility.

Frank, on the other hand, just said that it was all false and nothing was
going on. Well lo and behold, about two months later on July 8th we all get
tested because in Nevada at the time, Saguaro still had not conducted a
single test for staff nor inmates of COVID-19. So many staff were in here
presenting symptoms that were consistent with COVID-19 and so were inmates.
So, no I don't think they took the necessary precautions.

Once those tests came back on July 8th, I mean the test that we took on July
8th, I believe the test came back the following week after that. When those
test results came back it turned out that out of the 99 inmates who were
tested, which were all Nevada inmates, we were only tested because Nevada
asked we be tested, over 60 inmates tested positive. So that was **over 60%
were positive for COVID-19** indicative and kind of going right with what I
said was occurring in the facility back in May. So, I hope that answers your
question.

**N**: Yes, thanks for sharing. Nevada has said all inmates with COVID are
asymptomatic do you agree with that description or have you seen evidence of
symptoms?

**R**: It's definitely..., that description that all inmates are asymptomatic
is false. In fact, just about four days ago there was an inmate up here who
specifically was throwing up blood and even in May inmates were coughing up
blood and going through stuff. But now just recently four days ago there was
an inmates throwing up blood and he actually had a cup of the blood which he
was spewing out in his vomit in his hand as he approached a nurde to try to
ask for help. Well they waved him off and they said go fill out a request
form, fill out a medical request form and send it to us in the mail. So, they
didn't give him any help there. He ended He ended up calling his mother, his
mother called the facility and put some pressure on the facility to make sure
they treated her son. The nurses came back around the next day and decided to
then see him and try to tend to what was going on with him. There are few
inmates who have complained that it feels like there's fluid on their lungs
and they’re having trouble breathing there are quite a few inmates suffering
from fatigue and different spine aches or abdominal tenderness in their
stomach so no I would disagree with the statement that all the inmates were
asymptomatic.

**N**: What was the reaction among inmates when they were told that they were
tested positive?

**R**: Pretty much it was the rhetorical, _“damn I knew it,”_ you know?
Everybody knew it was spreading through the facility, the running joke
amongst CO’s and inmates was that, _“well everybody just about everybody's
got it now as long as nobody dies were alright.”_ So there was a running
joke, **long before the test**, that it was spreading through the facility.
My concern was given the fact that it was so prevalent and common knowledge
that people were sick with symptoms that appear to be consistent with the
disease that characterizes the global pandemic that is surrounding us, is
that Saguaro was still steadfast in their refusal to test a single person for
COVID-19. And I believe their goal was to keep this prison as one of the few
Core Civic prisons in Arizona as being characterized as having zero COVID
cases so that they can continue to take in more contracts and money from
other states. Because obviously no state really wants to send inmates to a
prison that has COVID cases. And in this particular situation, they actually
tried to move us to a prison called Florence Central, a Core Civic prison in
Florence Arizona, in June right before the tests came. I’m saying, in late
June they came and made an announcement around June Twenty-Six or Seven
telling us we all had to be out in four days, so pack our stuff up. Well that
ended up getting cancelled when the test arrived, but I believe they were
trying to send us down to the Central facility so that we would take the test
down there and it would appear that we caught COVID down there. Because
Florence Central had been suffering from an outbreak as early as May 9th for
public knowledge because the ACLU had filed a class-action lawsuit on May 9th
against that facility out here in Arizona. So, I believe they were trying to
deliberately cover up the fact COVID was in this facility so they could at
least still have one prison to pull in cash from other states because they
were trying to move the Idaho state prisoners in our place after they moved
us out to Florence. That was their plan.

**N**: Do there appear to be enough staff members to address the needs of
inmates with COVID?

**R**: No, there is not. In fact, they are short-staffed. Many staff have
quit, many staff are taking off because of spread. They are actually very
very short-staffed. Most of these staff are working an enormous amount of
overtime every week, just to man the facility here. I mean you see the same
officers here, it is almost like they are sleeping here.

**N**: Has there been testing of inmates every two or three weeks as planned?

**R**: No, to my knowledge the only testing they did there was two Hawaiian
prisoners who had the protest for two days and that protest consisted of them
blocking their windows so that the guards could not do count properly because
they couldn’t see into the room to count if the inmate was alive in the cell
or do a welfare check. So they protested for about 24 hours before the
facility met their demands and that's because these Hawaiian inmates were
housed in the facility with us and they were housed in that unit as well, the
particular unit I was in where this happened there was eight guys who had
came back positive for COVID-19. And you have these Hawwaiian guys and a
couple Kansas guys in their same unit. So two of the Hawaiian guys took it
upon themselves after they asked for testing and were refused a test, they
protested. And then a negotiation process began and they negotiated to
unblock their windows and end their protest if they were allowed to be tested
for COVID-19. Those are the only two in the unit I was in and to my knowledge
that have been tested with Core Civic’s personal testing apparatus or
supplies.

**N**: Has anything changed about the prison’s response to the situation after
the positive results came back?

**R**: Yes, there has been some changes. Those changes have been more they’re
\*angry at Nevada
and Nevada prisoners. They feel like they’ve been set up and they have been
saying that they don’t believe the tests are reliable and Nevada was making
it up. One thing they have done is they stepped up the gear that the officers
now wear. The officers now wear a full body hazmat suit with a face shield
and a mask. Whereas before they were wearing nothing and sometimes a mask if
they chose to and sometimes not.

**N**: Has there been any separation between the Nevada inmates and the other
out of state prisoners that Saguaro houses; the ones from Hawaii and Kansas?

**R**: There has been a separation since the return of the test. That day that
they got notice officially here, I wouldn't say officially, but the day
notice trickled down to the facility here from Nevada that so many inmates
had tested positive. They then suspended the work privileges and the movement
privileges beyond our unit for the Nevada inmates. So we’re still in housed
in all the unit, but there is one wing that houses, and that would be the
segregation wing, which houses still Hawaiii prisoners are still over there,
the two guys who have been tested plus a few others, there is a Kansas guy
over there. And there’s Nevada inmates in that same unit. They’re not
disinfecting those showers. They’re not cleaning the phones before they give
it to them. They only have one phone which they bring to those guys cell to
cell. So, there is some intermingling still going on, if that answers the
question.

**N**: Based on those circumstances, do you think it would be likely that a
Nevada inmate got COVID from a Hawaii inmate or visa versa?

**R**: It's definitely possible, I mean the Nevada inmates, we worked in the
kitchen amongst the Hawaiian and Kansas population. We also worked yard
labor, we worked a number of jobs. So it's possible it could have been given
from us to them, from them to us, or from, more likely, an officer or staff
member to us because the disease doesn't just grow legs and walk into the
prison on its own. It has to come through the staff. Whether it’s on their
clothes or whether some of them have snuck in here even though they’re
presenting symptoms. And there were quite a few people who presented symptoms
at the time that were still working. So, it had to be brought in by some
staff member and then infect an inmate or spread from there on. But it could
have happened any number of ways. My guess or estimate, the best one I can
give you, is that a large portion of the facility is infected. You have over
1,300 prisoners here, only 99 were tested and out of those 99 over 60
something prisoners were positive. So you imagine if you test this whole
facility. But they are still refusing to test the Hawaiian population or the
Kansas population. So whatever their purposes are, those could be nefarious
purposes or they could be budgetary purposes. Regardless it’s not legitimate
purposes. But I believe it has more to do with trying to allow the clock to
reset so to speak so the number of COIVD cases goes back to zero. And now
they can take in that Idaho contract which they done already signed and
received the millions of dollars that that contract provides.

**N**: The last question I have is, what response would you like to see from
the Nevada Governor or legislature in response to the many positive tests
among Nevada inmates?

**R**: R: I would like to see, my hope would be that the governor, Mr. Steve
Sisolack, and the government of Nevada would at least place us somewhere
where people cared more about our lives. That would be the best case scenario
in my mind. Whether that be bringing us back to Nevada, which is probably not
likely or feasible given the pandemic and all there lockdown orders. Or
whether it is Core Civic moving us to a safer facility or a facility that is
more mindful and caring about what is happening to us. Here they don’t really
care. So, we are just left to survive this the best way we can. Which is a
very crazy scenario. The best they do here is walk around with a surface
thermometer, one of those ones that you point the laser at your head to see
what the temperature is, twice a day. Which really means nothing in the large
scheme of COVID-19 because you could have any number of symptoms that can be
associated with COVID-19. And a thermometer that only reads the surface
temperature of your skin is not really giving you the core temperature
anyways. So, that’s the best they’re doing. My best hope would be that they
take us somewhere where **they actually cared whether we live or die in this
place.**

**N**: Great, thanks. Is there anything else you’d like to say Rickie?

**R**: No, I want to thank the Nevada Independent for taking the time to
submit those questions. I hope it adds to the public discourse and the debate
and conversation about what is going on here. And that it is fruitful and
helpful for the prisoners. People need to remember that we are also someone’s
brother, father, uncle, cousin, friend. We have families and those taxpayers
who pay for the prison system and the services that Nevada provides are
relatives of many of ours here. So, I would hope that Nevada cares enough to
do something that is _in our benefit instead our detriment_.

**N**: Thank you, Rickie.

**R**: Thank you.
